# Comparisons

Container orchestration involves managing the lifecycle of containers, especially in
large and dynamic environments where numerous microservices are used. Besides
Kubernetes, other popular container orchestration tools include Docker Swarm, Apache
Mesos, and OpenShift. These tools share common goals but differ in their approach,
features, and ecosystem integrations [@Dobies_2020].

## Kubernetes vs. Docker Swarm

Docker Swarm, another popular container orchestration tool, is deeply integrated with
Docker, making it a straightforward choice for Docker-centric workflows. Docker Swarm
emphasizes simplicity and ease of use, making it ideal for small to medium-sized
environments. It provides a more straightforward setup and configuration compared to
Kubernetes, with native clustering capabilities and easy scaling commands
[@Ganne_2020]. However, Kubernetes offers more extensive features, flexibility, and
scalability, making it suitable for large-scale and complex environments. Kubernetes
supports a broader range of networking options, has a more mature ecosystem, and
offers extensive customization through custom controllers and operators. It also
provides advanced features like automated rollbacks, load balancing, and secret
management, which are more rudimentary in Docker Swarm.

## Kubernetes vs. Apache Mesos

Apache Mesos is a general-purpose cluster manager that can run various workloads,
including containers, big data, and machine learning tasks. Unlike Kubernetes, which
is specifically designed for containers, Mesos aims to be a more flexible distributed
systems kernel, handling a wide variety of workload types. Mesos can run Kubernetes
as a framework, which allows users to leverage Mesos' resource management
capabilities while still using Kubernetes for container orchestration [@Mercl_2019].
Kubernetes offers a more cohesive and integrated experience for container management,
with a broader community and ecosystem support. Kubernetes' focus on container
orchestration means it has more refined tools for managing containers at scale,
whereas Mesos, being more generalized, does not have the same level of specialization
or ease of use for container-centric operations.
